# Využití protokolu Matrix pro videohovory (The Usage of the Matrix Protocol for Video Calls)

## Využití protokolu Matrix pro videohovory

PDF lze nalézt
[zde](https://nightly.link/SimonBrandner/RocnikovaPrace-MatrixRTC/workflows/build.yaml/stable/matrixRTC.pdf.zip).

### Anotace

V posledních letech se značně rozšířilo využívání aplikací určených pro
videokonference po internetu. K jejich rozvoji výrazně přispěla pandemie
covid-19. Trend v jejich využívání však zůstává zachován a stávají se běžným
nástrojem pro komunikaci. Většina aplikací, která poskytuje tyto funkce, je ale
buď proprietární (closed-source), např. Zoom, Google Meet, MS Teams, či
protokol, který používají, není otevřený, např. Jitsi. V této práci se zaměříme
na otevřený protokol Matrix pro komunikaci v reálném čase, jehož součástí bude
skupinové volání (dále MatrixRTC). V současné době je tato podpora pro skupinové
volání v pokročilé fázi vývoje. Cílem této práce je rozebrat jednotlivé
komponenty aplikací pro skupinové volání a prozkoumat samotný protokol MatrixRTC
a jeho implementace, zhodnotit jeho použitelnost, flexibilitu, rozšiřitelnost
atp. V praktické části je poté cílem navrhnout a implementovat tzv. break-out
rooms pomocí MatrixRTC.

### Klíčová slova

Matrix, WebRTC, VoIP, otevřený software

## The Usage of the Matrix Protocol for Video Calls

PDF can be found
[here](https://nightly.link/SimonBrandner/RocnikovaPrace-MatrixRTC/workflows/build.yaml/stable/matrixRTC.pdf.zip).

### Annotation

In recent years, the use of applications designed for video conferencing over
the Internet has become more common. The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed
significantly to their development. Even with the pandemic over, the trend in
their use remains and they are becoming a common tool for communication. Most
applications that provide these features are either proprietary (closed-source),
e.g. Zoom, Google Meet, MS Teams, or the protocol they use is not open, e.g.
Jitsi. In this paper, we focus on the open protocol Matrix for real-time
communication, which will include a group calling feature (hereafter MatrixRTC).
Currently, the support for group calls is at an advanced stage of development.
The aim of this paper is to analyse the different components of group calling
applications and examine the MatrixRTC protocol itself and its implementations,
to evaluate its usability, flexibility, extensibility etc. In the practical
part, the goal is then to design and implement break-out rooms using MatrixRTC.

### Keywords

Matrix, WebRTC, VoIP, open source
